---
title: "IQS011 - Entities have a unique ID"
---

IQS011 is as follows:

Entities have a unique ID

## Reasoning

In the past, entities used to be volatile.
Home Assistant didn't keep track of which entities it knew from the past and which it didn't.
To allow customizations to entities, like renaming the entity or changing the unit of measurement, Home Assistant needed a way to keep track of entities.

To solve this, Home Assistant introduced the entity registry.
The entity registry is a central place where Home Assistant keeps track of all entities it knows about.
Each entity in the entity registry has a unique ID, which is unique per domain per platform.

Ideally, the unique identifier is tied to the device itself.
This way, if a user once need to remove and re-add an integration, the entity registry can automatically restore the previous entity customizations.
It would also restore automations and dashboards that reference the entity.

If an entity doesn't have a unique ID, the user has less control over the entity.
Thus, making sure that entities have a unique ID improves the user experience.

## Example implementation

In this example there is a temperature sensor that sets its unique ID using the shorthand notation.

`sensor.py`:
```python
class MySensor(SensorEntity):

    def __init__(self, device_id: str) -> None:
        self._attr_unique_id = f"{device_id}_temperature"
```

## Additional resources

More information about the requirements for a unique identifier can be found in the [documentation](../../../entity_registry_index#unique-id-requirements).

## Exceptions

There are no exceptions to this rule.

## Related rules

- IQS003 - Don't allow the same device or service to be able to be set up twice