---
title: "IQS045 - The documentation describes all integration configuration options"
---

IQS045 is as follows:

The documentation describes all integration configuration options

## Reasoning

Integrations can provide an options flow to allow users to change integration configuration.
This rule ensures that all configuration options are documented so that users can understand what each option does and how to use it.

## Example implementation

In the following example, the integration has an options flow where the user can configure if the integration should add light groups as entities.

```markdown
## Configuration options

The integration provides a single setting: you are able to disable the creation of light groups as entities.
```
The following example is for an integration with multiple configuration options, using the `configuration_basic` tag.

{% configuration_basic %}
country_code:
  description: You can specify the country code (NL or BE) of the
    country to display on the camera.
delta:
  description: Time interval in seconds between camera image updates
timeframe:
  description: Minutes to look ahead for precipitation forecast sensors (minimum 5, maximum 120).
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

 or

{% configuration_basic %}
Max Volume:
  description: Maximum volume limit as a percentage. Often the maximum volume of the receiver is far too loud. Setting this will set Home Assistant's 100% volume to be this setting on the amplifier. For example, if you set this to 50%, when you set Home Assistant to be 100%, then your receiver will be set to 50% of its maximum volume.
  default: 100
  type: integer
Input sources:
  description: Mappings of input sources to their names.
  type: list
{% endconfiguration_basic %}
## Additional resources


## Exceptions

There are no exceptions to this rule.

## Related rules

